README.md, before:

# How to sustain a treatment directory?

## Define the user and the problem

People in need (clients) and social workers, nurses, etc. that can help them. Sometimes the people in need don't have the access themselves to get the things they need, so social workers and nurses are good targets because they'll have access to computer, Internet, etc. and can use that information to help others.

Has to be quick because most nurses don't have the time. They get paid for the time they spend with the client, they won't get paid for spending time at home working with a web site.

How do you convince a nurse or someone to use a tool that would still require time investment that they might not get paid for? Desire to help their patients.

Nurses and social workers have eyes for different things, they see different problems. What's your blood pressure versus when was the last time someone cleaned.

## What are problems with the status quo?

Information is there but people who need it 1) don't know it exists, 2) can't get to it, 3) can't understand the paperwork or other things blocking them from getting what they need.

Resources exist but get out of date. Out in the wild with a client is the most difficult time to find information. Even when you're in the office, sometimes the information is out of date.

Sometimes there's not a social worker for a client to talk to. 

[Aunt Bertha](https://www.auntbertha.com/get_directory?postal=42701#program-details-ahJzfnNlYXJjaGJlcnRoYS1ocmRyFAsSB1Byb2dyYW0YgICAspymqQoM) was one attempt for this. Some information does not seem relevant for the zip code that's searched. There's a free service but it's not as good as the paid one, and the paid one would be expensive. Also info is not prominent about age restrictions for services provided, like if the service is just for children versus adults.

A nurse might recognize a need, call an overworked social worker, tell the family, and still nothing happens. Clients might contact a relative for help, others don't have that resource. Nurses are overworked.

## Solution ideas

- TurboTax-style questions for a client, like a wizard. How are you feeling, etc., and the information could go back into the system, to the nurse, the social worker, etc.
    - Nurses could incorporate questions into the discharge step.
- A mobile app to be used by health care professionals would be the most helpful, says social worker.
- HIPAA compliance is a concern.
- Knowledge-sharing tool for caregivers.
- Make it easy to report service issues (bad data, missing data, etc.).
- Give data owners statistics in periodic emails.
    - Good to send an email at least every few months so they remember the web site exists and their service is represented there.
- Social worker wants to search for services by the client's zip code.
    - After social worker gets services from app, she will pass along phone numbers to the client. "You need a hot meal? Call Warm Blessings."
    - Nurse could use the app and get the same results, wouldn't have to call a social worker to get resources for client.
    - Biggest thing is that the services listed are still around, that the data is up to date.

## Notes from a social worker

Lady needed food stamps but couldn't leave her home. Social worker asked on her behalf, can I get her a form so I can get food stamps for her? Oh yeah, just call this number. Solution already there, just the person in need didn't know about it.

A man trying to get money from Veterans Affairs couldn't understand the papers he was getting in the mail, telling him to submit documentation. Social worker acted as middleman to interpret papers, fax some forms on the man's behalf. Man got his money and other things he needed. Organization willing to give the man what he needed, there was just a communication barrier preventing him from getting it.

Elderly person didn't know they needed a landline to be able to use a LifeAlert button. Also didn't know they could get a landline for free. Not just a phone but hot meals, help around the house, could be anything they need and don't realize they can get. AT&T gives landlines for free to elderly people if you meet criteria, like if you're on food stamps.

Social worker ends up doing a lot of work she wouldn't get paid for because she wanted to do it and knew if she didn't do it, it wouldn't get done.

[Department of Aging and Independent Living](http://chfs.ky.gov/dail/) would be the people who would enter resource information initially. Different development districts have their own resource directories. [Bluegrass Area Development District](http://bgadd.org/)

What makes a good development district? They call you back. They sound excited to talk to you on the phone. They keep their information up to date. They're thorough. They have a mobile app.

Accessibility to programs via mobile would help the clients the most, says social worker. A lot of areas don't have good cell coverage, so it'd be on the social worker to look something up at the office and call the client back.

The age range that is served is very important information. Some programs are only for children, some programs are for veterans. Also distinguishing between paid and free services.

Food stamps, WIC, Medicare, Medicaid, substance abuse--big categories our social worker interviewee would look for on a resource directory. Housekeeping, bathing, at home with no food. Need detail and subcategories. Home health needs for elderly clients.

What would a sponsor want to see in a service like this? Meetings. If I'm going to visit my parents in Richmond and my sponsor is in Louisville, if I'm having issues the first thing the sponsor will say is 'find a meeting.'

Each service needs receptionist to help with specifics.

Some things are peer-driven. Big emphasis and push on recovery. You might not have a social worker or nurse there, just other people who have recovered and are pulling people through.

Because the service exists doesn't necessarily mean it's a good service. Waiting lists, for example, so the client can't get help immediately. Social might need to tell the state "there's a waiting list for service X" and the state can see there's a need for more funding in that area.

Social worker might find a client by a referral.

Commit message:

Info about referrals and talking to client

README.md, after:

# How to sustain a treatment directory?

## Define the user and the problem

People in need (clients) and social workers, nurses, etc. that can help them. Sometimes the people in need don't have the access themselves to get the things they need, so social workers and nurses are good targets because they'll have access to computer, Internet, etc. and can use that information to help others.

Has to be quick because most nurses don't have the time. They get paid for the time they spend with the client, they won't get paid for spending time at home working with a web site.

How do you convince a nurse or someone to use a tool that would still require time investment that they might not get paid for? Desire to help their patients.

Nurses and social workers have eyes for different things, they see different problems. What's your blood pressure versus when was the last time someone cleaned.

## What are problems with the status quo?

Information is there but people who need it 1) don't know it exists, 2) can't get to it, 3) can't understand the paperwork or other things blocking them from getting what they need.

Resources exist but get out of date. Out in the wild with a client is the most difficult time to find information. Even when you're in the office, sometimes the information is out of date.

Sometimes there's not a social worker for a client to talk to. 

[Aunt Bertha](https://www.auntbertha.com/get_directory?postal=42701#program-details-ahJzfnNlYXJjaGJlcnRoYS1ocmRyFAsSB1Byb2dyYW0YgICAspymqQoM) was one attempt for this. Some information does not seem relevant for the zip code that's searched. There's a free service but it's not as good as the paid one, and the paid one would be expensive. Also info is not prominent about age restrictions for services provided, like if the service is just for children versus adults.

A nurse might recognize a need, call an overworked social worker, tell the family, and still nothing happens. Clients might contact a relative for help, others don't have that resource. Nurses are overworked.

## Solution ideas

- Social worker wants to search for services by the client's zip code.
    - After social worker gets services from app, she will pass along phone numbers to the client. "You need a hot meal? Call Warm Blessings."
    - Nurse could use the app and get the same results, wouldn't have to call a social worker to get resources for client.
    - Biggest thing is that the services listed are still around, that the data is up to date.
    - Break down whether service costs money or not, who it serves, its phone number(s).
    - Search based on need: bath, meal, etc.
- TurboTax-style questions for a client, like a wizard. How are you feeling, etc., and the information could go back into the system, to the nurse, the social worker, etc.
    - Nurses could incorporate questions into the discharge step.
- A mobile app to be used by health care professionals would be the most helpful, says social worker.
- HIPAA compliance is a concern.
- Knowledge-sharing tool for caregivers.
- Make it easy to report service issues (bad data, missing data, etc.).
- Give data owners statistics in periodic emails.
    - Good to send an email at least every few months so they remember the web site exists and their service is represented there.

## Notes from a social worker

Lady needed food stamps but couldn't leave her home. Social worker asked on her behalf, can I get her a form so I can get food stamps for her? Oh yeah, just call this number. Solution already there, just the person in need didn't know about it.

A man trying to get money from Veterans Affairs couldn't understand the papers he was getting in the mail, telling him to submit documentation. Social worker acted as middleman to interpret papers, fax some forms on the man's behalf. Man got his money and other things he needed. Organization willing to give the man what he needed, there was just a communication barrier preventing him from getting it.

Elderly person didn't know they needed a landline to be able to use a LifeAlert button. Also didn't know they could get a landline for free. Not just a phone but hot meals, help around the house, could be anything they need and don't realize they can get. AT&T gives landlines for free to elderly people if you meet criteria, like if you're on food stamps.

Social worker ends up doing a lot of work she wouldn't get paid for because she wanted to do it and knew if she didn't do it, it wouldn't get done.

[Department of Aging and Independent Living](http://chfs.ky.gov/dail/) would be the people who would enter resource information initially. Different development districts have their own resource directories. [Bluegrass Area Development District](http://bgadd.org/)

What makes a good development district? They call you back. They sound excited to talk to you on the phone. They keep their information up to date. They're thorough. They have a mobile app.

Accessibility to programs via mobile would help the clients the most, says social worker. A lot of areas don't have good cell coverage, so it'd be on the social worker to look something up at the office and call the client back.

The age range that is served is very important information. Some programs are only for children, some programs are for veterans. Also distinguishing between paid and free services.

Food stamps, WIC, Medicare, Medicaid, substance abuse--big categories our social worker interviewee would look for on a resource directory. Housekeeping, bathing, at home with no food. Need detail and subcategories. Home health needs for elderly clients.

What would a sponsor want to see in a service like this? Meetings. If I'm going to visit my parents in Richmond and my sponsor is in Louisville, if I'm having issues the first thing the sponsor will say is 'find a meeting.'

Each service needs receptionist to help with specifics.

Some things are peer-driven. Big emphasis and push on recovery. You might not have a social worker or nurse there, just other people who have recovered and are pulling people through.

Because the service exists doesn't necessarily mean it's a good service. Waiting lists, for example, so the client can't get help immediately. Social might need to tell the state "there's a waiting list for service X" and the state can see there's a need for more funding in that area.

Social worker gets a referral, sees the client's income, whether they're single or a family, etc. before meeting the client. Can start to filter out "well I can't use that service, they won't be able to afford it." She won't really know until she sits down and talks to the client. But maybe they've got $100,000 under the bed they didn't tell the nurse about, or they have a rich aunt.
